Facebook and Fake News
Consider each of the below proposals, and fill in each of the below TODOs.
Proposals
Proposal 1
Facebook relies on an algorithm as well as individual users’ reports to identify content that is potentially "fake
news." Once the content has been identified, it is sent to third party fact-checkers for verification. If the content
is verified as fake news, it is publicly flagged with a warning that the content is disputed by fact-checkers.
Proposal 2
However, a designer at Facebook believes that there needs to be a different approach to content regulation.
Their proposal is that content deemed problematic by third-party fact-checkers should be prevented from being
shared on the platform altogether.
Questions
1. Which form of content regulation, Proposal 1 or Proposal 2, do you feel is better? Why?
a. Proposal 1 is better because it gives some level of transparency to the person posting it as well
as not suppressing anyone’s political beliefs.
2. Which form of content regulation, Proposal 1 or Proposal 2, do you think best preserves or promotes
the five rights and opportunities necessary for a democratic public sphere?
a. Which proposal best preserves or promotes Rights? Why?
i. Proposal 1 best preserves a person’s Rights because it still allows someone to post it
regardless of it being flagged as potentially fake.
b. Which proposal best preserves or promotes Opportunity for Expression? Why?
i. Proposal 1 best preserves Opportunity for Expression because it allows the article to be
posted while Proposal 2 does not allow posting altogether.
c. Which proposal best preserves or promotes Access? Why?
i. Proposal 1 best preserves Access because it allows anyone who’s friends with the user
posting the article to view the article at their own discretion.
d. Which proposal best preserves or promotes Diversity? Why?
i. Proposal 1 best preserves Diversity because although it could be flagged as potentially
fake news, it allows different view points to be expressed while in Proposal 2 that is
never the case.
e. Which proposal best preserves or promotes Communicative Power? Why?
i. Proposal 1 because it allows the article to be seen while alerting and flagging the
content as potentially misleading.
